# Scheduling
## Implementation of the routing algorithms FCFS, SJF (without pre-assignment), SRTF (with pre-assignment) and Round Robin (for any quantum value).
The code assumes execution in a **Linux** environment and the use of the C language code development tools available in it (gcc compiler and automake).
The code for each algorithm can be compiled using the make tool, giving the name of the algorithm (fcfs, sjf, srt, rr) as a parameter, e.g.:
```
make fcfs
```
or for all algorithms in total, simply by running:
```
make
```
The result is that the corresponding executable files will be created, which can be executed by giving as standard input files such as tests/INPUT01, e.g.:
```
cat tests/INPUT01 | ./fcfs
```
**The input files should be simple text files and follow the following format:**
* The first line contains an integer, which refers to the number of processes described below.
* The second line contains an integer, which refers to the quantum that the algorithms may use. The quantum is always defined, for all algorithms, but obviously will not be used by algorithms in which it plays no role.
* The remaining lines (as many as the integer in the first line of the file), contain three integers, which represent the process ID, its arrival time, and its burst CPU time.

**The following assumptions are made:**
* The input files will always have the correct format.
* The processes will be given in the order of their arrival.
* There will be no gaps in the routing of the processes, such as that the execution of all the remaining processes finishes at some time, but that no next process has yet arrived.

The code at the end of its execution prints on each line, the ID of the process that is executed at each time (starting from time 0). 
For the processes defined in the file tests/INPUT01 the output that should be generated will be the one that exists
in the corresponding files tests/fcfs01, tests/sjf01, tests/srtf01 and tests/rr01, e.g.:
```
$ cat tests/INPUT01 | ./fcfs
1
1
1
2
2
3
```
You can check whether the output generated by your executables corresponds to them by running for each algorithm a command like
```
make test-fcfs
```
or for all algorithms together:
```
make test
```
> [!NOTE]  
> You can add new test cases by creating files named INPUTXX, fcfsXX, sjfXX, srtfXX and rrXX in the tests folder, where XX is a two-digit integer (e.g. INPUT02 etc.), in order to better check the correct implementation of the algorithms.
